# OnmaiGCS
This repo is to supplement the World Anvil world of Onmai Salemot(https://www.worldanvil.com/w/onmai-salemot-raligan), providing cloud access to data files used in GCS (GURPS Character Creator available at https://gurpscharactersheet.com/) as well as collaboration possibilities and potentially issue tracking.  GCS is an extremely useful tool and I wish I had it back when I was playing GURPS in person- it makes building a character a really easy.   
To get started using this:
First, download and install GCS from the link above.  Install it and figure out where your user library is (on Windows it's at C:\Users\\*Your User Name*\GCS\User Library\
The best way is to install github for Windows or whatever platform you use: https://github.com/ will have all the info you'll need to get started with it. There you can also set up Github accounts which will be useful later.  I recommend the GUI version because it will allow you to manage your local copy without using a command line.  Use the tool to create your local files, this is called pulling, since you are pulling a copy from my master to your disk.  When you make changes, you are said to be pushing them.  
For now, you just want to pull my master repository to your local disk.  Set it up to use the User Library noted above.  This will ensure the files are accessible from within GCS.
As of current writing, it can be a little iffy on updating the tree within GCS- you may need to make a change at the lowest level of the User Library to force a refresh or simply restart GCS to see updates.  This is a known issue with GCS on Windows and a fix should be out soon.
Now you should be able to run GCS.  Either open your character or create a new one in the file menu.  Then build your character with GCS's great interface.  But we aren't done.  We'll talk about making characters via discord.  Once you're done, you can export to a format Fantasy Grounds will understand.  Use Export To->Master Library Output Templates-> Fantasy Grounds PC, and select the local folder for our campaign (**TODO: Add instructions for finding this**).  Keep the naming consistent. 
GCS is where you'll update your character.  Every time we go to play, you'll need to export your character into FG- it's a pretty painless process.  
##GCS Help and Guidelines
GCS can be a little daunting at first, but the files you'll be interested in are the Master Library -> Basic Set -> Basic Set Advantages/Equipment/Modifiers/Skills, along with  User Library->Onmai->everything.  Once you have the books you want to use, choose *File->New...->New Character Sheet* and then you can start editing your character.  Mostly you'll be dragging and dropping items from the books to their respective containers (advantages and disadvantages go on the corresponding block, separate from skills, etc).   Literacy and Language are advantages, and will eventually exist in the Onmai section, but for now figure Common is a language and each race has a language.  Every race, including Humans, speaks their language plus Common.  Characters will get 250 points (mark this in the blue Unspent slot at the top right of the character) and may take 50 points of disadvantages and 5 points of quirks, for a total of 305 points of attributes, skills, and advantages.  The total points in all skills cannot exceed 2x your character's age.  If you want to take a single huge disadvantage for more than 50 points, you will need GM's approval. Disadvantages from Onmai profession/racial templates do not count toward your disadvantage limit.  Don't forget your equipment!  Most things will be available from Low Tech and Basic Set up to TL4.  There aren't any domesticated animals on Onmai, so associated equipment won't be available either, and for the most part weapons and armor are handled in Onmai Equipment.   Your starting wealth will depend on where you start, but on average figure $1000.  Most places are higher than that, but it's better that have more money than to have to pare down.  
